far is a spokesperson for Palestine red
Cresent Society she joins us live from
rala good to have you with us so first
of all let's start with some of the most
pressing needs right now seem to be
simply finding something to eat tell us
what people are facing in terms of
finding food right now in
Gaza good evening Sammy thanks for
having me we at the palestin red
crescent are extremely worried regarding
the Israeli evacuation orders for
Palestinian in Hanes where should people
go there is nowhere left there is no
safe place RAF already in RAF there is
no room for everyone and shelters are
already packed the situation is
extremely dangerous in hunis there is a
ongoing shelling that is happening all
the night and there's thousands of
people who are still there who who don't
have any place to go to yesterday
thousands of Palestinians who are taking
shelter inside the Palestine red Cresent
at Chu inun they have left towards RAF
while at the same time thousands others
came in to take their places I spoke to
one of my colleague who his family still
there in the Palestine atq in Kan yunes
and he said despite the dangerous his
family are not going to go to rafah
because they don't have any place to go
to and that means they gonna stay in
streets another colleague he has already
evacuated from his home in Gaza at the
beginning of the escalation and he is
now with his brother home they have
packed up everything but they haven't
left yet because they don't have
anywhere to go to and they only wish to
stay safe wherever they are as for the
humanitarian needs every single place in
Gaza every Palestinian now over 2
million civilians are lacking food water
and everything they don't have access to
nothing and now in Rafa even the
situation is just worsening being a
Palestinian means that you have to
choose now between the Bad and the worst
impossible decisions are being taken by
all of Palestinians because simply they
don't have any other solution or choice
to take do we have any idea how many
people right now
have headed towards RAF it seems to be
the focal point for a lot of displaced
Palestinians do you have any idea how
many people are are living rough
there so basically as I mentioned
thousands have already fled from hanun
towards RAF but at the same time
thousands others are still there in
hanun they don't have any option to go
they don't have family members to go uh
to be with them and as I mentioned
shelters are already packed and there's
no uh way or no space left for anyone on
top of that many people they will have
they will be in streets because there is
no space left and everyone is lacking
food water and everything as you know
the Palestine red crescent is even
receiving the humanitarian Aid via Rafa
Crossing uh border from the Egyptian red
crescent our teams are still working to
receive Aid however since the beginning
of the escalation and up to this moment
what we have received is the is is
barely a 10% of the needs it doesn't
scratching the surface what we have if I
can jump in if you're getting only 10%
of people's needs how long is it before
perhaps we start seeing starvation
people dying from from lack of food do
you have a timetable it is it is one of
the major concerns now literally people
if they are are not going to die from
the Shilling and the bombardment
Palestinians will be died because of
hunger now it's a huge struggle for
every Palestinian to have food for his
family and children none of the families
even
have days
weeks I don't have accurate estimation
regarding the situation but from what we
see on the ground most Palestinians now
are struggling even to have a one meal
with very basic things it's just a
miracle to have food for your children
and your family and as I said it's just
something really hard even the internal
Market the market after over two month
of continuous escalation and the
blockade on Gaza and only just very
minimum humanarian Aid is getting in so
the internal Market is almost empty when
you go to any grocery store or
whatsoever what you can find it is only
empty shelves the only thing that is
available is like some vegetables and
because of the situation prices have
went so much high so even people can't
afford buying vegetables or what is
available because they have been for
over two months with with no work with
no money with no salary or whatsoever
taken into consideration that most
Palestinians in Gaza are working on a
daily
basis all right we'll leave it there
thanks so muchal
far